All those who come for the first time
to a program of Sahaja Yoga,
because of the dedication
of a few Sahaja Yogis,
they are called, who live around here,
Her Holiness Mataji Nirmala Devi
has very graciously accepted
to come here and to talk to us.
It is not easy to introduce a reality
which is beyond words,
which is deep, genuine,
which is at the core of what we are seeking.
And the difficulty is the greater
in this time, now,
because the spiritual scene has been invaded
by all sorts of people,
pseudo-teachers, who offer many things,
many experiences,
which, instead of taking us
nearer to ourselves,
take us away from us.
Sahaja Yoga is a very, very simple
and yet tremendous process,
whereby our attention is sucked inside,
is sucked inside by the raising
of a potential energy
which is within each of us,
as Mataji is going to explain.
It is unbelievable, and therefore,
no one asks you to believe.
It is unbelievable that such
an incredible happening,
that you can actually
get connected with yourself,
within you, that such a happening
can happen in such a very short time,
to people like us, who, after all,
are not that spiritually pure,
that spiritually evolved.
But it has been written
in very ancient scriptures,
that this residual consciousness
within each of us,
which is called Kundalini,
spontaneously raises
in the 'darshan' of the Adi Shakti.
'Adi' means primordial,
'Shakti' means power.
Our spiritual potential
can be awakened spontaneously
and effortlessly in the presence
of the One who is the Divine Mother.
Now we are thousands of people
all over the continents.
We have gone to many, many
various movements, with very many gurus,
and one or the others,
we have disregarded them, discarded them,
because they didn't offer
what we were actually seeking,
that is a genuine happening,
not 'blah, blah, blah',
not spiritual lectures,
but something happening inside.
And something which had to fit
with the teachings of Lord Krishna,
with the teachings of Jesus Christ,
with the teachings of all
the great masters.
You see, it's like being
in a junky market,
where all the junk
is priced very expensively.
And there is somewhere a stand
where genuine pearls are on display,
and they are offered free.
Now, how are the customers
going to believe that the pearls are genuine?
Now, that's going to be
your problem maybe this evening.
But give yourself a chance to think
that this can happen to you.
None of us were more worthy
than anyone else
of entering into this realm
of collective consciousness,
which is open by Sahaja Yoga.
Yet, it did happen.
So it might happen to you also.
The only thing which is required from you
is just to sit relaxed,
not to accept, not to reject,
to silence the mind a little bit
if possible, and to be open.
It's all right. It's all right.
I'll walk this side.
If there is a custom
to thank your own children,
who are anxious to share
whatever they have achieved,
I would like to thank
my Sahaja Yogis children,
who have been giving Me this idea,
who have arranged this program
in this beautiful hall.
As now Gregoire was telling you,
that it has to be free.
The grace of God
cannot be purchased.
What can you pay for it?
If anybody had taken any money,
he has insulted
the very basis of spiritual life.
I do not know in these modern times,
where everything they sell.
So, people think they can also
sell God and be saved.
If you see the lives of very great prophets
like Mohammed, Nanaka, Kabir
they did not sell what they had to be.
Even Christ, He had to take a hunter
in his hand
and beat the people who were trying
to sell things outside the church.
They are not selling God.
But even to use the premises
of God's worship like a market,
He could not bear it.
It was too much to see.
So you cannot pay for it.
That's very sure.
And think of it, what can you pay
for the grace of God?
The second thing about Self-realization
is to understand mentally
that you cannot put in effort about it.
What is the Self-realization actually?
It's the last breakthrough
of human beings into your own being,
into your own evolutionary process.
You reach a goal
where you become yourself.
As I say, this cord here,
it has been created as instrument.
To make it act as itself,
it has to be put to the mains.
In the same way,
we are to be put to the mains
to know what we are,
and what we are supposed to do,
and to have our fulfilment.
This gap of breakthrough
has to be spontaneous,
because it is a living process
like a sprouting of a seed.
You cannot make a seed sprout by orders,
or by standing on your head,
or doing any Hatha Yoga.
You cannot make the seed germinate.
If there is a seed within you,
and the germinating power
has to sprout by itself,
it has to be spontaneous.
If you understand the meaning
of the living process,
it is responsible for bringing you
from amoeba stage to this human stage,
for which you need not do anything,
you should also know that this
is the job of God and not you.
The God Almighty is going to work out
your spontaneous rebirth.
It is through his grace
you are going to do it.
It is your own capability,
your own stability
and your own achievements
within yourself, that you are going to do.
You have achieved your human stage
after passing through many phases of lives.
And today you are here
to receive that grace in yourself,
and to achieve that what has been promised
in all the scriptures.
There cannot be any quarrel
as far as the truth is concerned.
Because truth is one
and it is described in many different languages.
But it's described the same,
in all of them,
and it's prophesied that one day will come,
that you will be convinced of it.
So far, it could not be done en-masse.
It could be achieved
by only very few individuals.
Because it is the way
evolution always goes on.
First a small fish comes out of the sea,
touches the shores, becomes a reptile.
And then few more,
and then all sorts of fishes followed.
In the same way
your evolution is going to work out.
For very few achieved it,
they described it.
But for you, it was an activity
which you can't understand
what they were talking about.
Because they were born at a place
which was much higher than you,
say on the 10th storey,
and you were just on the ground level.
How will you know
what they are talking about?
So it is necessary that you should rise
at least to the fourth storey,
to know that there is
something beyond it.
But when I talk about the beyond,
every religion talks about it.
Everybody talks about the beyond.
Everybody talks about his name.
When, today, I was discussing
the book with Gregoire,
he said, "Mother, they are going to pick up
all the words.
They are going to talk the same way
as you are talking".
I said, "Really?"
He said, "Really, yes.
Whatever they can pick up,
they have reached out
from all the scriptures
and they have talked the same way
as you are talking".
Then what should I do?
How am I to tell them
that where you are, you cannot talk.
They are very subtle
and they know how to put in the circle.
They know how to propagate.
And they know how to pass.
The other day, I met somebody
who was very right-handed man
whom we saved from somebody
who was a wicked man,
out of your country also.
And this right-handed man
then came to Sahaja Yoga
because he wanted something for himself.
He said, "I have done too much
for this man and I have got nothing.
So I must have something for myself".
So he came down to Sahaja Yoga.
And then he told me the trick.
He said, "This man has confessed to me
that if you pay,
then the people have
a feeling of involvement.
If you pay money, say for a picture,
it may not be very good.
You go and see the picture
and see to the end of it,
because you have paid for it".
That's the psychology
human beings have.
And that's how it pays in a double.
But to a seeker of truth,
he does not pay for it.
Let them take away your money.
Let them take away all that is
superficial, transitory.
But they have to give you something
of eternal life.
He doesn't pay off the seeker,
neither the ones who are a facade with that.
They are the real ones.
It's going to be a very dangerous game
for such people, no doubt.
And also for the seekers
if they do not wake up in right time,
and understand that reality
is to be felt and experienced within ourselves.
And it is not to be just brainwashed
in our heads, that this is the reality.
It is to be actualized in our experience.
If it is not so, just discard anybody.
Anybody who comes in the name of God
or Jesus or anyone of them,
they have nothing to do
with these great incarnations
who came on this earth to evolve you,
and to bring you to this point
that you are just ready to achieve your goal.
When I tell you about the Kundalini,
you can see here, in the picture we have shown,
in that triangular thing,
is the Kundalini,
is the residual consciousness,
placed by nature of God Almighty,
it just has to be put to the mains.
It's all done for you.
The whole thing is prepared within you
when you became a human being.
The fifth center developed
when you raised your head from animal stage
and you started looking up.
That is the stage at which a man
became a human being,
from chimpanzee, you can say.
Then the higher stage is the sixth stage
when Christ came on this earth.
That is the sixth center
where Christ resides
and He came on this earth to show you
what Lord Krishna has preached throughout,
that it cannot be killed,
it cannot be blown off,
it cannot be finished and destroyed
and that eternal life was proved by Christ
at this stage.
All the great saints, or we can say
the prophets who came on this earth to teach us,
have been the manifestation
of the Primordial Masters,
who came on this earth to guide us
and to tell us what we should do
to stabilize ourselves,
to be ready to get our Realisation,
what is our style of life
that is going to help us
to be able to manage.
And these people appeared
at this green centre,
which is built up to receive
and carry sub-plexuses or sub-patterns,
and these are the ten sub-plexuses
which represent our ten masters.
These have been supported,
fully supported by all the prophets
who came on this earth.
They talked about it
because they had to stabilize.
A prophet came on this earth to stabilize,
to give you the idea of inner religion,
the stabilizing points within you
by which you will learn how to balance yourself.
Like when you have to climb up,
you must also know how to balance,
otherwise you will go more
on the left or more on the right,
and there will be a problem.
So these prophets came on this earth
to teach you how to stabilize,
and they are all set in
in your own stomach, they are there.
They exist there but in most of the cases
they are not active.
Once they are active,
nobody has to tell you "Don't do".
There is no need
because if you try to do anything,
you just cannot do it,
you will start vomiting.
It is so automatically built in by depth
but as they are not yet
awakened within you,
you can do whatever you like.
It is your freedom,
so-called freedom, as I call it,
to destroy yourself.
It is there when they
are enlightened within you.
For example, Moses was one of them.
They were mainly ten people
who came on this earth.
The same essence, the same personality,
you can say,
took their birth in different times
to guide us all throughout,
how to be completely silent.
Now there are six different centres,
and if I am to explain them all,
it would be a very lengthy lecture,
which I don't think we have
so much time for in this one lecture.
But in any case, I would like to tell you
another very important centre.
It is placed at that red coloured one.
It is the first one
which is called as the Mooladhara Chakra,
meaning the centre of the root,
or you can say,
the support of the root.
The support of the root,
the root is the Kundalini,
and the support of the root
is this particular centre.
And that's why this centre
is a very important centre to Me now
and this is the centre of innocence.
When this universe was created,
first innocence was created.
Sin was not created first,
it was innocence that was created.
And this is the first centre within us
which exists as innocence.
And the deity on this,
is the deity which is
the embodiment of innocence within us.
But when we try to fight our innocence,
and we try to get out of our innocence,
this deity sleeps off.
Once this deity sleeps off, we can do
whatever we like with our innocence.
We can go to any extent of wrongdoing,
any kind of sins. Nothing can happen.
When this is awakened, immediately
you realize there is a problem,
and this problem is because I am running away
from my innocence,
and innocence is not something to run from.
Now it is a very, very abstract thing
that I am talking about
which you may find is
something out of the blue.
But these are all within you.
You will be amazed.
All these centres are placed within you,
except for the red one,
all the rest are placed
in your backbone
and within your spinal cords.
The first part of the brain
is on one side, left side and right side
as I showed you,
is made of three powers coming through.
The first power that is shown
is on the left-hand side,
which is shown in the black.
It's the power by which you exist.
And when it manifests within you,
it manifests outside on the physical plane,
as the left sympathetic nervous system,
and is expressed as our existence.
If you see on the right-hand side
is the second power
which is in the yellow colour,
is the colour of the sun, you can say.
And is also called as Sun channel.
This line exists within us,
helps us in our creativity.
We create, we think about it,
through this line.
It also creates this body
and also maintains this body.
Plus, it also gives us power
to create things for the future
and this we call as
the supraconscious area,
which takes us to our future.
When we think about our future
and we plan about our future,
this is another kind of energy
that flows within us.
These are the undercurrents
I am telling you, which exist within us.
Now you don't have to believe Me
because I am telling you.
But this is a hypothesis for you.
As a scientist you must accept
the hypothesis at the outward expression of it.
But later on, you can experiment within,
and find for yourself
if these things are true or not.
Now the middle path,
that is what you call the middle path of Buddha,
or you can say the central part
of our being
is a channel which we call
as a Sushumna channel.
And this channel manifests outside
the parasympathetic nervous system.
So we have got three channels.
First the Ida channel which expresses
the left side sympathetic nervous system.
The right side is the Pingala channel
which expresses
the right side sympathetic
nervous system.
And in the centre is the Sushumna channel
which expresses
the parasympathetic nervous system.
Now you are not doctors so,
I am telling you a little bit about it.
And there is, within us,
of course, you know the central nervous system
by which we are conscious of everything.
But we are not fully conscious.
For example we are not conscious
of our centres within us.
After Realisation only
you can become conscious.
You can start feeling them
and you will start knowing
where is the obstruction,
where is the thing and what is working.
After Self-realization only
you know yourself,
means you know your instrument within
and what position is the problem,
where is the Kundalini,
where it is rising,
how it is falling down, how far it has gone.
Everything you will only know,
when you have got Realisation
and you will have dimension
in which you can feel yourself.
And also you can feel others,
in the way,
I always give a very simple example.
Like you are all pearls
and the pearls
are stringed together to one string.
But just now, you are separate.
If you are stringed together,
put on to the string which connects each other,
then you jump into a new awareness,
where you start feeling each other.
For example now, this light,
if you put on this lamp, it comes to light
because it is in the subtle.
But if you are not in the subtle,
then the light will go down.
In the same way, if you come
into the subtle by Self-realization,
then the connection takes place like this.
You absolutely become one
with the All-pervading subtle Power
which is being described
by all these great scriptures.
It happens to you spontaneously.
I was telling you a little bit
about the parasympathetic and the sympathetic.
Now sympathetic nervous system is the system
which we use when we are in emergency.
For example, I have seen a lion,
I start running.
I start running,
my heart starts pumping fast.
Now this is the sympathetic we are using.
But the same sympathetic
can be used for increasing the rate of heart.
For decreasing the rate of heart,
you find automatically, spontaneously,
when you stop after some time,
it slows the heart.
That is done by parasympathetic.
The left sympathetic nervous system
caters to our emotional side
and our emotional attachment,
and right side to our thinking
and our physical being.
Now this is the way
you are placed within yourself.
I will not describe all the chakras,
all the centres, but they are there.
Now you may say,
in the Bible, where do you find it?
In the Bible, it is said,
"I will appear before you like tongues of flame".
Now which priest can explain them?
If they are not Realised souls,
if they have not been inside,
they have not seen them.
How will they know?
Kabira has talked about those.
He has described chakras after chakras.
Adi Shankaracharya, of course,
nothing to say
because the whole thing
is nothing but how to awaken the Kundalini.
Now the mistake in Kundalini awakening
is that, as I said,
they pick up everything, you see.
If you see a diamond,
you can make an artificial diamond.
If you see a real bird,
you can also make an artificial bird.
You can make everything artificial.
In the same way,
these horrible people
have also made the Kundalini
itself absolutely artificial.
Because they have read about it.
Now they started finding,
"Where is this Kundalini? Let us try to find out".
They exploit you for their own good.
Now you cannot find that,
it's not possible.
It's a very precious thing
and that's why its support
is sitting down there,
looking after the Kundalini.
Now imagine, the idea is so funny,
so shocking
that these people—
I would not say, as a Mother,
to condemn them completely,
in the beginning,
maybe for the mistake
of their forefathers.
It might be, they might have seen something
in that area,
which is the red chakra
which controls the sex.
And they might have seen a part
of the deity which has got a trunk,
and might have concluded that,
"This is the Kundalini".
I give them the benefit of the doubt, maybe.
And that's how they concluded
that if you excite the sex
you can get the Kundalini awakening,
which is absolutely wrong.
It's just the opposition of what it is.
Don't be shocked! It's a fact.
If you try to do
this kind of a nonsense,
it is something like,
there the mother is sitting down.
She is the mother who is going
to give you the birth,
this Kundalini is there, sitting down,
waiting for all your lives, till today,
to give you the rebirth.
And here you are,
putting sex on your own Mother.
What? What is worse than this?
How insulting it is.
Just think of it.
And such an absurd thing is done
by these people
who call themselves Tantrikas
and Matrikas
and now they do all kinds of things,
and they are selling them
in the market very nicely.
You'll be amazed,
there is somebody now here in London,
they told Me.
They started with about 30 people
in the hall.
And they said,
"You have to take off all your clothes
and you just dance and you're nude".
So, next day they were 60.
Now there are so many people
that they have to hire bigger and bigger halls.
Now if you ask people to come down,
take off your clothes and dance,
you see, they should deny you
and they should.
Then they will have these people.
Let them have these people,
who are filling their pockets nicely,
and befooling you,
just making you dance, exhaust,
making you sinful
and think they're doing good.
That's the best way they can do it.
Because there must be some weakness
about people also,
that they are so foolish
to accept such a thing,
that dancing naked,
you could get reward.
In India, or in any poor country,
do you think they are going to achieve God
by doing that?
Or dancing on the Oxford street,
do you think they can achieve God?
Use your brain.
How can God be that mad
to create such a situation for you,
and make you lose your Realisation?
No.
You have to be baptized
at the point that He is trying to bring us to.
And it has to come up
through your fontanel bone,
where it should open up,
and you must get into
the All-pervading Power.
You have to become that subtle being
and that is what you have to achieve.
You do not achieve it,
if you are not a Self-realized soul.
Now, say, for example,
if somebody says,
"Mother, you must give
my son the Realisation".
I cannot.
I cannot say that I can give.
If it has to work, it will work.
If it does not work out—
before, on my own children,
I cannot say that they have been given
the Realisation.
It is the genuine thing
that works in you.
Maybe there is a problem
in one of your chakras.
Maybe emotionally you are ruined,
emotionally you are tired,
maybe it is the children
who have gone wrong.
Something has gone wrong with you.
You have gone to the wrong guru
or something like that has happened.
The Kundalini is not raising.
She knows.
She is a tape-recorder
of your subconscious,
and she is your mother.
And she will be the first to jump up
and to give you that Realisation
because she is waiting for this.
But it may not work.
You may be a very egoistical person.
The whole brain might be covered
in this yellow stuff, which is the ego.
Or maybe you are possessed,
and the whole thing is covered in the black,
which is the superego.
You might be a person
with drug and chemical habits
and have taken all the drugs
in your body
and there is something wrong
on your physical plane.
Maybe something has happened to you.
It may not rise.
It must be cleansed somehow.
We'll work it out.
We can only say that we can work it out,
because it's a genuine thing.
It is not giving you a false thing.
You cannot just foolishly say that,
"All right, you pay two hundred dollars,
and I will give you a mantra
and immediately you become that".
This is an imposture. Think about it.
How can someone just say,
"You can just become something special"?
Maybe you are going on the left-hand side
to the collective subconscious
or go the right-hand side
to the collective supra-conscious.
Maybe you are possessed by something.
Maybe there is some sort of possession
that is working in you
and you feel you have
become something special.
So you have to remember that
a Realized soul
is a person who knows
about his own chakras.
Even a small little child
of two years old,
will be able to tell you
where is the catch about it.
You are that evolved.
It's a subjective knowledge that becomes
a part and parcel of your own being.
Like if you can be enlightened,
you can see yourself enough.
You have got eyes to see.
You don't have to ask others.
You just see them
because you have eyes to know.
Enlightenment means this.
And not enlightenment that somebody comes
and puts a little spark in your head.
They will all end up
as mad people or broken hearts.
They are already
having such problems.
In Caxton Hall,
at least fifty percent of people are like that.
They are exhausted in their pursuit.
They are exhausted in their brain,
exhausted in their heart.
Poor people have worked day in and day out
for all this.
There was a German girl who came to Me.
And she's so exhausted now.
She said, "Mother, I have given up
all my property, all my money, everything.
I am broke, now.
I am finished!
And at this stage,
I discovered that, oh God,
I have been all wrong".
I said, "What happened with your brain?
Where did you leave it?"
She said, "No, they have real reasons
doing that.
They make you surrender yourself
in such a way
that you surrender your wisdom", she said.
But why not surrender to your wisdom
by understanding it
through your brain, first of all?
So I ask you on rationality,
that you understand
that reality means that
you have to face it.
You have to do it.
You should have your own powers manifested.
What is there if I show you some powers
from here sitting down?
Will God really do that?
Is that the way to recognize
our spiritual evolved personality?
Think about it.
So what is the way?
How are we to do it?
It's our love being exposed to God
and to our heart.
Then another thing,
it is not like an advertisement.
One has to be deep.
You have to be deeper.
If you are superficial,
it will not work.
You have to be deep about it
and understand with all reverence,
that it is a thing that happens to you.
But you have to maintain it.
Even if you could give a light
in a proper lamp,
still you have to look after it.
In the same way, spiritual life grows.
It's not a question of faith.
But you become somebody else, no doubt.
But you are still a child
and you have to stabilize
into the new way of life,
into God, in the kingdom of God.
We have to rise in the kingdom
of God within ourselves.
And when you rise
in the kingdom of God,
you are given the power
of citizenship automatically.
There is no question about it.
And what is the power of citizenship,
when you arrive there,
as the honoured citizen
of God's kingdom?
The first power you get
is of collective consciousness.
It's a feeling.
Now, for example, Me,
I'm sitting before him
and he is catching his Heart Chakra.
He is putting his hand
and taking vibrations there,
because he knows
he's catching on Heart Chakra.
I don't have to tell him that.
He knows that
and he doesn't feel bad about it.
He knows that he's got a problem with that.
Now, if I tell him,
"Now see the vibrations of this boy?",
immediately he'll tell you
where is the problem.
And then he can also correct him.
He can raise his Kundalini
and can give him Realisation.
Immediately after,
when it happens to you,
you can start raising.
It's fantastic. Extremely fantastic.
Because it is said,
it is the Guru, first of all,
chooses his disciples,
makes them stand on their heads,
then puts them hanging in the well,
and does all kinds of horrible things.
But, the time has come
for the Blossom Time.
Today is the Blossom Time
and it has to work out.
If it does not work out,
the creation will lose its own sense.
It has to be en masse.
It has to happen to many of them
so that they accept it
and understand it and they spread it.
And this has to be this way.
And that's why today's Sahaja Yoga
is very much different
from the Sahaja Yoga of earlier times,
which worked out in the same way,
but worked on few people, not en masse.
It happened with so many in America.
And, I must say, in India,
how fast it has clicked with so many.
In England also,
it should be answered for all of you.
And it should happen to all of you.
I will be looking forward
to what's happening for you.
Enjoy your Self.
Feel your Self,
the source that is you,
and you'll realize what you are.
It is not easy, as I told you,
to tell all about it in such a short time,
because now I've been speaking
and you know how many years I speak,
and still every time I speak,
they have said,
"Mother, there's so much to be learned
about it. It's too much to be learned".
So, I would just say to be short,
that as, for, say,
lighting these lights,
you have to just press the button.
It's so simple.
But behind it also,
there's a big organization
and a big coordination of so many people,
that works out this small happening
of just pressing the button.
But the whole thing is done, it's built.
Once it is built in,
you just press the button and you get it.
You get the TV,
you just press it and you get it.
It has been done after years of research,
and years of efforts by people going deeply
into themselves, into meditation
and finding out what sort of thing we are
and what we should do.
Even Me, I knew all this
from the day I was born.
I knew about my mission
and I knew also who I was.
Everything I knew.
But I didn't know
how to give en masse thing.
And I had to get into
the Kundalinis of people
to find out what was the problem.
Why? Why the Kundalini did not raise?
What's the problem?
I had to go through all
the permutations and combinations
till I was 47 years old.
And after that,
I found it out and I said,
"I opened the Sahasrara.
I opened it out and people can work it out".
And then it started working
and now I've been working for so many years
and it has been fixed.
So for you, those who are great thinkers
and analysers,
please do not start analysing Me,
because that makes it difficult.
Neither start analysing yourself
because that also makes it difficult.
So just understand that it is not
through rationality you are going to reach there.
But through rationality,
you reach a point from where you can see
that you have to reach that high,
and it just works spontaneously.
Then your rationality,
you may not use,
but you will be at a point
where you will be just travelling
with the force, the flow of your river,
that is the Kundalini there,
which is just coiled up,
will rise itself
and you will feel that it happens.
So what happens?
It's a very easy and simple thing.
And how is that happening?
Another simple thing,
like one candle enlightens another candle.
It's that simple.
Because you are that,
you are made specially. You are built in.
Only thing what happens is
you just pour a little water on your seed,
and the seed sprouts.
That's all my job is.
It's your own seed.
It's your own Kundalini
and you get your own rights.
And it is your own right
no matter what you have been.
So my job is only to pour
a little water of love
and just to see that it sprouts properly.
If there is any obstruction anywhere,
I will try to clear it and work it out.
Now what do you do?
You don't have to do anything about it,
as I said.
But these hands, I have to show you,
they represent all of the chakras.
All your hands, you have to put them
towards Me like this, you see.
So the vibrations that flow
from my being will flow
just to your fingers,
and then you will start to receive
through this centre.
Then you go to that centre there,
and they will send a message
of stimulation to the Kundalini
with pulsation.
And then your Kundalini will rise.
Now all the names of these chakras
and different things,
I hope you have brought it for them.
Have you got it?
They have got it for you there.
So you can go back home
and see for yourself.
But first of all, get there.
And once you get it,
try to stabilize.
Many people who get it,
they feel very happy, and they just go back.
No, that's not the way.
Try to learn and try to understand
what it is. Master it.
You can cure—we have cured cancer.
Cancer cannot be cured
by anything else but Sahaja Yoga.
This is the only solution for cancer.
But, you see,
it is difficult to convince people.
What is the reason for cancer?
Let's find out what is the reason.
And it's a very simple reason:
it is the over-activity
of the sympathetic nervous system
which creates imbalances within us.
And it can be only cured
if you put the parasympathetic there.
And this parasympathetic is the one
which gives you all the power
and all the nourishment that is needed
to fulfil the needs
of the sympathetic system.
It is like a car
which is travelling very fast
and the petrol is finished.
If you put that car to the mains,
and the source is feeding in,
then there is no necessity
for that car to be exhausted.
This is the same thing as
putting you to the mains,
from where the source is,
from where you get the source,
that you have up to that point,
which is very much limited,
which you have exhausted
and which has to be refilled.
And it has to happen that way.
Because it is so important
that it has to be free.
All that is important.
But the feeding has to be
absolutely free. It has to be spontaneous.
We have taken so many things for granted
that we do not know that
our Sahaja Yoga also
can be taken very much for granted
when you achieve it.
It happens to many other Sahaja Yogis.
But one has to know that
after getting your Realisation,
you have to look after yourself.
And this Realisation is the first time
any evolution has been in a conscious mind.
So far, all the evolutions that we have had,
let us say, from amoeba to this stage,
were unconscious.
But this will be different.
You will know that you have evolved.
You have become that.
I am a Mother
and my ways are little motherly.
And motherly ways are very ancient.
And she knows how to bring
her children above things.
And that's why it is called as Maya ways.
And she brings her children
to the right way.
And sometimes,
I have to scold some people
who just don't listen to Me, sometimes.
But it is not that I make you
surrender your wisdom,
but your ego gets
automatically surrendered,
which is keeping you away from your Self.
Once you get the beauty of your Self,
you become so relaxed
and so happy with yourself,
that automatically
you drop off all your so-called vices.
Because the vices are there
because you are bored, that's why.
And they just drop.
I don't have to say,
"Don't do this, and don't do that".
They just drop off because you start getting
drawn into your own being, your own Self.
And it's such a beautiful life.
And then the yoga starts
between your Self,
and a beautiful relationship,
very pure,
steps in, not in material,
not emotionally,
but a feeling of belonging to One,
of belonging to the whole Being,
you can call it, the Primordial Being.
The whole is pure,
you start feeling in the ocean of such people.
May God bless you.
Put your hands toward Me.
And another request I have—
please take your shoes off
because you ground yourself better.
And there is no shopping going on here.
You are here to get something.
You are not here to demand,
but to get something.
It is your own wealth.
So we are not shopping here,
we are getting something for our own wealth.
So we should not be angry about people,
and we should not be angry about it.
But it is the time.
It's so simple, try to be simple.
Please put your hands straight forwards.
Now, the people who are Realized,
as I told you,
they will later on come to tell you
if there is a problem in your centres.
I have to also tell you that
you can cure brain diseases,
and nervous diseases
and also emotional problems.
Very easy, very easy to do.
But first of all,
you need to get your Self-realisation.
Once you get it,
then you will know how to treat it,
and in the most simple manner.
It has to be extremely simple.
Please put your hands like this.
Some of you may feel
your eyes looking down.
For such people, I would request
that they close their eyes, it is better.
Because the eyelids are looking down
because the pupil inside is dilating.
Just try to close your eyes
in case you feel they are looking down.
In case your eyes are flickering,
then you have to open your eyes.
Just stay on your eyelids.
Best is to close them.
Just close them.
Just watch your mind.
Ask the mind to tell you
if there is any thought.
What are you thinking? Ask the mind.
That's the best way to do it.
If you can close your eyes
without flickering, just try.
without flickering, you are the best.
That's the best way.
You can achieve your Self-realisation.
This will solve most
of your problems automatically.
Now what are the centres you are catching?
It's that of Christ.
For that, I have to tell you
why you are catching.
Because one thing he has told us to do:
we have to forgive others.
You have to just say,
"I forgive all of them".
Not to bear any embitterment in mind.
Because if you do not forgive, also,
it's just a myth.
You do not do anything for it.
On the contrary,
you are playing in
the hands of people.
Just close your eyes and say,
"I forgive. I forgive all of them".
Still you have to say, "I forgive".
All of us.
Because I think that's one of the centres
which is catching.
Please say, "I forgive".
Another centre on the left-hand side,
for the people who feel
they are guilty of this.
This is all a fashion going on.
It is very wrong.
Because this is the temple of God
and you have no business to condemn it.
So, those who think
that they are guilty have to say,
"I'm not guilty". Within yourself.
At least thrice, please say that,
"I'm not guilty".
From left to the right.
Some of you have got an imbalance within,
because some of you are very hard-working people.
You have got an imbalance within,
from left to the right.
And now you can all raise
your Kundalini like this,
and then you tie it high.
One hand towards Me, the left side.
With the right hand,
see for yourself.
Are you feeling cool breeze
in your hand?
I felt it on my hands
before you mentioned it.
You did?
Yes. Yes, actually,
I thought there was some draft in here.
You are great, I must say.
Really, you are great,
it happened so easily.
Yes, that's something which happens
with people like this.
You too have that?
Yes, I felt it on my heart.
Just imagine, so great people are here!
You see, so great.
Now let's see,
all of you should feel it.